+++
title = "Git Dropbox with Gitreceive"
date = 2014-10-24
description = "How you can setup an SSH server that you can `git push` anything to"
+++

## How to setup a server that will automatically receive and save anything you `git push` to it.

I wanted to host my git repositories on a private server but didn't want to
setup something big like Gitlab or Gitorious to do it. I also wanted to be able
to `git push` anything and have the server automatically create a new git
repository and store the data.

The easiest way I found to do this was to use
[gitreceive](https://github.com/progrium/gitreceive) by [Jeff
Lindsay](http://progrium.com/blog/) who created
[Dokku](https://github.com/progrium/gitreceive).

I followed the instructions for setting up gitreceive but ran into a small
hangup when trying to push a repository:

```
$ gp home master
Counting objects: 1032, done.
Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (1020/1020), done.
Writing objects: 100% (1032/1032), 5.04 MiB | 1.20 MiB/s, done.
Total 1032 (delta 82), reused 0 (delta 0)
To git@foo.co:bar
 ! [remote rejected] master -> master (pre-receive hook declined)
error: failed to push some refs to 'git@foo.co:bar'
```

The error `pre-receive hook declined` means that the receiver script that
gitreceive installs to `/home/git` was crashing. However, the default receiver
script does nothing which makes it odd that it would crash. The cause of the
problem is that [gitreceive is piping the output of `git archive` to the
receiver
script](https://github.com/progrium/gitreceive/blob/ff8d03ec8d308f6dec8142b9c4e8518591d6e32f/gitreceive#L115).
The receiver script does nothing so exits before `cat` cat finish. This causes
`cat`, then gitreceive to crash with a non-zero exit status causing the
`pre-receive hook declined` error.

The solution to this is simple. Add the following line to the receiver script:

```sh
cat /dev/stdin > /dev/null
```

This will wait for gitreceive to finish piping the archived repository before
exiting. Now you can push a new repository and gitreceive will automatically
create and receive it.

```
git push home master
Counting objects: 1032, done.  Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (1020/1020), done.
Writing objects: 100% (1032/1032), 5.04 MiB | 1.20 MiB/s, done.
Total 1032 (delta 82), reused 0 (delta 0)
 __________________
< Have a nice day! >
 ------------------
        \   ^__^
         \  (oo)\_______
            (__)\       )\/\
                ||----w |
                ||     ||
To git@foo.co:bar
* [new branch]      master -> master
```

Note: you do **not** need to save a copy of the archive that gitreceive is
piping into the receiver script. The repository's data is still being saved in
`/home/git/<reponame>`. You can verify this by running `git clone`.
