---
title: Pypette
date: 2011-02-06
layout: post
---

Disclaimer: I had this idea in the shower.

## Bioinformatics algorithms implemented in C, wrapped in Python.

Bioinformatics applications are naturally targeted at solving a specific problem. If a researcher creates a new protocol, he or she must a.) adjust that protocol to the software b.) write software specific to that problem or c.) wait for someone to write software specific to that problem. The goal of Pypette is to make option b easier by implementing common bioinformatics algorithms that can be mixed and matched.

## Example problem:

A research wants to perform a _de novo_ assembly from short reads using a de-Brujin graph approach similar to Velvet, taking into account quality scores. The short reads came from an environmental sample amplified with random hexamers and is thus a metagenomic sample. The researcher estimates that there are 4 prominent organisms in the sample and each should have a genome coverage of about 18x. Before assembling, the researcher wishes to bin the reads according to which organism the read is most likely to belong to using the hidden-markov model approach (via: [Assembly is hard because it's not decomposable"](http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/aug-10/assembly-part-i.html))

This procedure would be very complicated to implement from scratch. As a result the researcher may either give up, change the experiment, or attempt to carry out the procedure by adapting existing tools.

## Solution:

{% highlight python %}
from pypette import debrujin, markov, fastq

# Load the reads
with open("reads.fastq") as handle:
    reads = fastq.load(handle)

# Iterative markov binning
reads_binned = \
    markov.cluster(reads, probability=lambda x: x.qual.to_f(), bins=4)
    
# Construction of debrujin graph per bin
graphs = {}
for n, bin in enumerate(reads_binned):
    graphs[n] = debrujin(bin, probability=lambda x: x.qual.to_f())

# Solving of debrujin graph per bin
contigs = {}

# Convert to contigs
[ contigs[n] = graphs[n].contigs() for n in graphs ]

# Output contig files in fasta format
for n in contigs:
    with open("contigs_%s" % n) as handle:
        for contig in contigs[n]:
            print >> handle, contig.fastq()
{% endhighlight %}

_or something like that..._

## Viola!

The user was able to craft a complex bioinformatics application with very little code without having to implement the underlying bioinformatics algorithms, just customize them.